---
layout: post
what: 'publication'
title: 'Are we ready to talk about feminist game mechanics?'
---

<h2>Abstract [en]</h2>
<p> While character design and representation have been extensively discussed within feminist discourse, the attention given to game mechanics has been limited. This study aims to challenge the assumption that feminist ideals in video games can only be conveyed through narrative elements and investigate the potential of integrating feminist principles into game design, with a specific focus on game mechanics. Drawing on Bogost's (2007) Procedural Rhetorics theory, which asserts that digital systems can enable the creation of interactive arguments surpassing traditional rhetoric, the thesis examines how mechanics can prioritize inclusivity and diversity. Through critical analysis of existing discourses and semi-structured interviews with game design students who are pursuing a career as industry professionals, the study evaluates the current state of the industry and identifies areas for improvement. Nine interviews were conducted, and thematic analysis using a deductive approach was employed. </p>

<p> The study highlights the significance of representation, with participants expressing a preference for strong female protagonists, while also recognizing divergent perspectives on whether the mere inclusion of a female character equates to a feminist game. Player agency during gameplay was not frequently mentioned in the interviews, a topic commonly discussed in scholarly literature. The study calls for clearer guidelines and definitions in the field and proposes two categories: Empowerment and Equality, derived from participant responses. Participants suggested examples of feminist game mechanics related to empowerment (addressing real-life issues and encouraging collaboration) and equality (ensuring equal chances regardless of gender). </p>